From Penrith two roads lead to Pooley Bridge, about six miles distant, which spans the Eamont just at its issue from Ulleswater.
Either road may be taken, be we recommend that which follows the Shap road to Eamont Bridge.
Carleton Hall is near to it on the left.
Cross the bridge, and take the first road to the right.
At this point, on the left, are the druidical remains called ULLESWATER To Patterdale, a distance of ten miles; but, before proceeding along it, the tourist would do well to take a walk of a few miles along the eastern shore, in the direction of Martindale, from several points on which he will obtain a good view of the lake.
Should this deviation be made, it will be necessary to return by the same road to Pooley Bridge, where there are two small inns, at which boats, for an excursion on the water, or for fishing, may be procured if desired.
A fine view may be had from the top of Dunmallet, on which are the vestiges of a Roman fort.
There is some good fishing here in the lake and stream.
Trout, perch, and eels, are numerous, and large lake-trout are sometimes, though seldom, taken.
Lowther Castle, the seat of the Earl of Lonsdale, is distant from this bridge about four miles.
Ulleswater is nine miles in length, by nearly a mile wide, at the broadest point; but, owing to its irregular form, it is divided into three reaches, the first of which is closed in by Hallen Fell, on the western shore. The second is ter-AIRA FORCE.
Force is the general name for a waterfall.
This is a beautiful fall.
It leaps from the top of a wooded cliff, through a narrow gorge, and descends a sheer perpendicular height of eighty feet.
The roar of the falling waters, and the descending of spray, add to the feelings of romance created by the view of rugged rocks, thickly planted trees, and hanging verdure, which characterize the spot.
At the upper end of the park the last reach of the lake opens up the view, in a majestic sweep round the mountains on the opposite side.
The shores are bold, covered partly with wood, and indented with bays.
The road now passes under Sty- PATTERDALE, Where there is a good inn, at which boats and guides may be procured.
Some time ought to be spent here in visiting the beautiful scenes in the vicinity.
Among these are,- the little HAWES WATER